JOHANNESBURG (miningweekly.com) – Operations at Aim-listed Vast Resources’ Manaila polymetallic mine, in Romania, and Pickstone-Peerless gold mine, in Zimbabwe, improved significantly quarter-on-quarter in the three months to June 30. During the second quarter, the 100%-owned Manaila mine, achieved a 41% quarter-on-quarter increase in ore mined to 27 707 t, while ore milled increased by 54% quarter-on-quarter to 28 082 t. Copper concentrate production increased by 57% to 828 t and zinc concentrate by 19% quarter-on-quarter to 157 t. “Manaila has delivered a significant improvement in performance compared with the previous quarter, and this upturn in operations is anticipated to continue throughout [the third quarter], demonstrating a clear upward trajectory in our production profile. “This improvement has been delivered through our Romanian operational team's efficient and effective attention to remedial actions undertaken during [the first and second quarters] to resolve persistent openpit and production issues, and will support the delivery of a consistent 15 000 t/m mill feed from September,” commented CEO Roy Pitchford. He added that positive progress had also been made with concentrate production from the test phase of the Knelson concentrator, which extracts a pyrite concentrate containing gold credits. “Work is ongoing to optimise production from the Knelson concentrator, with the objective of this contributing to Manaila's revenue and enhancing our overall production profile.  The important lessons learnt from turning around the performance at Manaila will be factored into future operational plans and the proposed new metallurgical complex to be sited at our Carlibaba prospect, located near to our Manaila openpit,” said Pitchford. PICKSTONE-PEERLESS
	Vast’s 25%-owned Pickstone-Peerless mine, meanwhile, achieved a 33% quarter-on-quarter increase in ore mined to 68 659 t in the second quarter, while ore milled rose 15% quarter-on-quarter to 58 923 t and gold production rose 36% year-on-year to 4 037 oz. “Mining, processing and production levels at Pickstone-Peerless have recovered from the previous quarter and, importantly, progress in the construction of the sulphide processing facility is progressing on schedule ahead of commissioning in [the third quarter]. “The sulphide plant is a critical development for Pickstone-Peerless and should increase production capacity by approximately 75%, promising a significant increase in ounces produced. "We remain confident that the underlying quality and value prospects of our mines in both Zimbabwe and Romania are excellent and expect production rates to be further enhanced going forward,” said Pitchford.